4.5 release page (#1138)
godotengine/godot-website: collections/_release_4_5/entry-platforms-apple-export-to-visionos.md

---
type: entry
section: platforms
subsection: apple
rank: 1
importance: 3
anchor: export-to-visionos
title: Export to visionOS
text: |

>   You can now export for Apple's XR platform, making Godot projects compatible with the Apple Vision Pro.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  You can now export for Apple’s XR platform, making Godot projects compatible with the Apple Vision Pro.
```

>   This makes visionOS the first officially-supported platform integration in about a decade.

Reviewer 2: I assume it's meant to say that it's the first added platform in a while? Right now it sounds a bit misleading, as if it's the only supported platform or something. (or maybe it's just me)

Reviewer 3: It should mention it is not (yet) a full XR support, but only support for the planar window apps. Otherwise, it might be misleading.

Author: I updated the text.

---
type: entry
section: platforms
subsection: apple
rank: 1
importance: 3
anchor: export-to-visionos
title: Export to visionOS
text: |

>   You can now export for Apple’s XR platform, making Godot projects compatible with the Apple Vision Pro.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  You can now export for Apple’s XR platform, visionOS, making Godot projects compatible with the Apple Vision Pro.
```

>   Godot 4.5 marks the first step of visionOS' native integration. Currently, it is only possible to export a project as an "windowed app". Your game will appear as a window, floating in the 3D space of the user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Godot 4.5 marks the first step of visionOS’ native integration. Currently, it is only possible to export a project as an "windowed app". Your game will appear as a window, floating in the 3D space of the user.
```

>   Godot 4.5 marks the first step of visionOS’ native integration. Currently, it is only possible to export a project as an "windowed app". Your game will appear as a window, floating in the 3D space of the user.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  Godot 4.5 marks the first step of visionOS’ native integration. Currently, it is only possible to export a project as a "windowed app". Your game will appear as a window, floating in the user's 3D space.
```

>   Fully immersive experience support is expected. We'll keep you in the loop.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Fully immersive experience support is expected. We’ll keep you in the loop.
```

>   Fully immersive experience support is expected. We’ll keep you in the loop.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  We expect to support fully immersive experiences in the future. We’ll keep you in the loop.
```
I think this is a better phrasing for the first sentence, but unfortunately it causes "We" at the beginning of the sentences to be repetitive. We could get rid of the second sentence entirely – it seems somewhat implied to me – but it also feels... Apple-ey, which I like for this section 😛

Reviewer 5: Yeah, I'd drop the second sentence here.

Author: > I think this is a better phrasing for the first sentence, but unfortunately it causes "We" at the beginning of the sentences to be repetitive. We could get rid of the second sentence entirely – it seems somewhat implied to me – but it also feels... Apple-ey, which I like for this section 😛

Well, it's also because we depend on Apple contributors for this (they lead the project). So we don't necessarily control _when_.

Author: I reworded the entire text. It now flows much better.

>   You can now export for Apple’s XR platform, visionOS, making Godot projects compatible with the Apple Vision Pro.
>
>    Godot 4.5 marks the first step of visionOS’ native integration. For this, we would like to thank Apple's visionOS engineering team for their contributions adding support for their operating system to the Godot Engine.
>
>  This is kinda a big deal: this is the first new platform supported natively by Godot since the project was open-sourced!
>
>  Currently, it is only possible to export a project as a "windowed app". Your game will appear as a window, floating in the user's 3D space. We expect to support fully immersive experiences in the future.

>   This is kinda a big deal: this is the first new platform supported natively by Godot since the project was open-sourced!

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  This is a big deal: the first new platform supported natively by Godot since the project was open-sourced!
```

Reviewer 5: Or maybe "milestone" instead of "big deal".

Reviewer 4: I agree with removing "kinda"; it feels a little too informal compared to most of the writing. I think the instance of "this is" you removed could be kept, or replaced with "it is":

```suggestion
  This is a big deal: it is the first platform supported natively by Godot since the project was open-sourced!
```
or, alternatively,
```suggestion
  This is a big deal: visionOS is the first platform supported natively by Godot since the project was open-sourced!
```

Reviewer 5: I removed "this is" because of the two "this is" in quick succession, but I agree, it seems a little bare without it. I think your suggestion of "visionOS is the..." is perfect.

>   It goes without saying, but this is kinda a big deal: this is the first new platform supported natively by Godot since the project was open-sourced!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  It goes without saying, but this is a kinda big deal: this is the first new platform supported natively by Godot since the project was open-sourced!
```
or
```suggestion
  It goes without saying, but this is kind of a big deal: this is the first new platform supported natively by Godot since the project was open-sourced!
```

Reviewer 5: I prefer the second suggestion. Although I would also prefer "It goes without saying, but" was removed - it always seems odd saying something doesn't need saying then saying it anyway!

Reviewer: Agreed

contributors:

>   - name: Ricardo Sanchez-Saez

Reviewer 4: I think it'd be worth noting somewhere in this block that Ricardo works on Apple's visionOS engineering team – in other words, this addition to Godot was done by Apple itself, which is pretty huge (unless I'm misunderstanding something)!

Author: @coppolaemilio Do you think it warrants a mention? Should we? We did for Godot Jolt, but it's not exactly the same scale of contribution.

Reviewer 6: I think it is what we should do! Ricardo did this work so he should be credited and Apple is who pays his salary, so there isn't anything to be worried about mentioning their involvement 👍

Author: Done!

text: |
  You can now export for Apple’s XR platform, visionOS, making Godot projects compatible with the Apple Vision Pro.

  Godot 4.5 marks the first step of visionOS’ native integration. For this, we would like to thank Apple's visionOS engineering team for their support of the Godot Engine.

  This is kinda a big deal: this is the first new platform supported natively by Godot since the project was open-sourced!

>   Currently, it is only possible to export a project as a "windowed app". Your game will appear as a window, floating in the user's 3D space. We expect to support fully immersive experiences in the future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Currently, it is only possible to export a project as a "windowed app". Your game will appear as a window, floating in the user’s 3D space. We expect to support fully immersive experiences in the future.
```

text: |
  You can now export for Apple’s XR platform, visionOS, making Godot projects compatible with the Apple Vision Pro.

>   Godot 4.5 marks the first step of visionOS’ native integration. For this, we would like to thank Apple's visionOS engineering team for their contributions adding support for their operating system to the Godot Engine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Godot 4.5 marks the first step of visionOS’ native integration. For this, we would like to thank Apple’s visionOS engineering team for their contributions adding support for their operating system to the Godot Engine.
```

  Fully immersive experience support is expected. We’ll keep you in the loop.

>   This is kinda a big deal: this is the first new platform supported natively by Godot since the project was open-sourced!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This is a kinda big deal: this is the first new platform supported natively by Godot since the project was open-sourced!
```
Or
```suggestion
  This is kind of a big deal: this is the first new platform supported natively by Godot since the project was open-sourced!
```
Still

Author: Replaced!
